**Title**: Exploration of Collage-Based Journaling in an Application\
**Adviser**: Alan Weide\
**Abstract**:\
This project is an exploration of collage-based journaling in a native macOS application. Collage journaling, sometimes called scrapbook or junk journaling, is the process of compiling multimedia pieces (including photographs, objects, and writing) into a journal with the intention of recording, reflecting, or creating. However, the materials necessary to create a collage journal can be both time-consuming and expensive to keep up with, both in day-to-day and travel. A software application is desirable for this purpose because it simultaneously solves these material complications and allows collage-journaling to be pushed in a direction only possible through digital platforms, such as through musical or video embedding as well as hyperlinks. While journaling and design software exists, neither are optimized for collage journaling. Journaling applications are heavily formatted, leaving little room for creativity, while design applications aren't organized ideally for journaling and lack a central element of time. This project seeks to bridge the gap between these types of collage/journaling applications - allowing for interesting overlaps and intersections, while also maintaining an approachable user interface. \

This application is implemented using SwiftUI and SwiftData for a native desktop application (macOS). As the first half of a year-long senior project, the objective is to develop the backend and basic functionality, with the goal of establishing a solid foundation on which to build out more robust features. The product is a desktop application which enables users to create journal pages per day, edit past pages, and view all pages in a gallery view. Within a page, users are able to place and arrange elements, as well as edit some of the element's features (such as enabling bolded or italicized text, resizing the element, etc.). All changes to that page are immediately and automatically saved to their local device storage for access across application instances.
